README.md, before:

csas-latex
==========

Latex style file and template for CSAS Research Documents

__Initial commit 19th September 2014, Andrew Edwards__

Contains latex style file plus an example template for producing DFO Research Documents for CSAS. The latest Res Docs to be published using (or partly) using some of this are our two Pacific Ocean Perch stock assessments [2013/092](http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas-sccs/publications/resdocs-docrech/2013/2013_092-eng.html) and [2013/093](http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas-sccs/publications/resdocs-docrech/2013/2013_093-eng.html) published in March 2014. (Please add to this as necessary).

READresDocTemplate.txt - see this for full details of the files, save me rewriting here. Do read this first.

The initial set of files here are the ones I emailed out to colleagues in the file resDocTemplate-2014-04-28.7z (except here I have excluded POP3CDresDocSubmit.pdf and POP3CDresDocSubmitAccess9.pdf since they are large), with minor edits to the READ...txt file.

I'm hosting all this on GitHub so that others can make and share refinements to the resDocSty.sty file as necessary.

As of September 2014, two Pacific assessments (Rock Sole and Silvergray) have been submitted to our local CSAS office, but they haven't attempted the 'web accessbility' part yet (based on the instructions in READresDocTemplate.txt). 

READaccessforCSAP.txt - extracting from READresDocTemplate.txt the Web Accessibility stuff to give to CSAP office as they may do it now for the .pdf's (as of Feb 2015). No need to copy to GitHub.

__INSTRUCTIONS IF YOU DO NOT USE GIT__

You can download all these files by clicking on 'Download Zip' on the right-hand side of this web page. The resulting .zip file will pretty much be the same as the one that I emailed out in April 2014. You can then use the example I gave and modify it as necessary.

In theory, the resDoc.bst and resDocSty.sty files should be the only ones that get modified in future (when the CSAS rules change). You could just check back here to see the date of the latest versions of those. 

__INSTRUCTIONS IF YOU DO USE GIT__

Either just download the files as above, or clone to your desktop. And copy the .sty and .bst files to where you normally keep such files (has to be in your path).

If you plan to improve the files, then create your own fork and:

1) Review pull requests (on github.com)

2) Update your own fork (git pull)

3) Work, edit, make changes: (git add; git commit; git push)

4) Now your branch is ahead of the original. Go to your repo on github.com, create pull request, send pull request.

__Next actions / wish list__

1. If you make improvements then please document them, here and/or in READresDocTemplate.txt. If the example runs okay, then any changes should really just be in the resDoc.bst and resDocSty.sty files, though some parts in .tex may need modifying. Hopefully the .sty file controls enough aspects that CSAS may want changed in the future.

2. The web accessibility aspects can probably be automated in Latex (rather than doing at the end in the .pdf). Look into this. A web search turns up 
[this site](http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/124291/revisiting-producing-structured-pdfs-from-latex) as possibly the most useful. I plan to maybe look into this for our assessment due December 2014, though may not have time. 

20/5/15: UPDATE regarding web accessibility: Ann in CSAP office says they can do with Web Accessibility stuff on the .pdf file, so we shouldn't have to.

updated resDocSty.sty - line 60 change indention from 0.5 to 0cm (CSAS does not want captions indented after first line). 

###Branches

**incorporateRH** - incorporating from Rowan's latest to use for Redbanded assessment. Commenting out stuff of his that I don't want now but is useful to keep in so it's all in one place.


###Bibliography

From resDoc.bst:

The ordering of papers for 2 and >2 authors is fiddly and maybe not possible to automate, and so just do manually prior to submission
(edit the order of the .bst file). The CJFAS rules are:

References must be listed in alphabetical order according to the name of the first author and not numbered. References with the same first author are listed in the following order. 

(i) Papers with one author only are listed first in chronological order, beginning with the earliest paper. 

(ii) Papers with dual authorship follow and are listed in alphabetical order by the last name of the second author. 

(iii) Papers with three or more authors appear after the dual-authored  papers and are arranged chronologically. 

[For Redbanded I had to re-order Edwards et al. (switch a and b?) and Yamanaka et al. references, and took out http links for some.]

Doing http:// links (CSAS wants them to be live and clickable) seems to work automatically when you make a .pdf. They don't have to be underlined. Though I think that has since changed and they don't want the http text visible, which is tricky. For Redbanded I've taken them out.

Commit message:

Commenting out some lines to make the bookmarks (tags?) get done in the .pdf; can click on Figure 1 and it jumps to that figure.

README.md, after:

csas-latex
==========

Latex style file and template for CSAS Research Documents

__Initial commit 19th September 2014, Andrew Edwards__

Contains latex style file plus an example template for producing DFO Research Documents for CSAS. The latest Res Docs to be published using (or partly) using some of this are our two Pacific Ocean Perch stock assessments [2013/092](http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas-sccs/publications/resdocs-docrech/2013/2013_092-eng.html) and [2013/093](http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas-sccs/publications/resdocs-docrech/2013/2013_093-eng.html) published in March 2014. (Please add to this as necessary).

READresDocTemplate.txt - see this for full details of the files, save me rewriting here. Do read this first.

The initial set of files here are the ones I emailed out to colleagues in the file resDocTemplate-2014-04-28.7z (except here I have excluded POP3CDresDocSubmit.pdf and POP3CDresDocSubmitAccess9.pdf since they are large), with minor edits to the READ...txt file.

I'm hosting all this on GitHub so that others can make and share refinements to the resDocSty.sty file as necessary.

As of September 2014, two Pacific assessments (Rock Sole and Silvergray) have been submitted to our local CSAS office, but they haven't attempted the 'web accessbility' part yet (based on the instructions in READresDocTemplate.txt). 

READaccessforCSAP.txt - extracting from READresDocTemplate.txt the Web Accessibility stuff to give to CSAP office as they may do it now for the .pdf's (as of Feb 2015). No need to copy to GitHub.

__INSTRUCTIONS IF YOU DO NOT USE GIT__

You can download all these files by clicking on 'Download Zip' on the right-hand side of this web page. The resulting .zip file will pretty much be the same as the one that I emailed out in April 2014. You can then use the example I gave and modify it as necessary.

In theory, the resDoc.bst and resDocSty.sty files should be the only ones that get modified in future (when the CSAS rules change). You could just check back here to see the date of the latest versions of those. 

__INSTRUCTIONS IF YOU DO USE GIT__

Either just download the files as above, or clone to your desktop. And copy the .sty and .bst files to where you normally keep such files (has to be in your path).

If you plan to improve the files, then create your own fork and:

1) Review pull requests (on github.com)

2) Update your own fork (git pull)

3) Work, edit, make changes: (git add; git commit; git push)

4) Now your branch is ahead of the original. Go to your repo on github.com, create pull request, send pull request.

__Next actions / wish list__

1. If you make improvements then please document them, here and/or in READresDocTemplate.txt. If the example runs okay, then any changes should really just be in the resDoc.bst and resDocSty.sty files, though some parts in .tex may need modifying. Hopefully the .sty file controls enough aspects that CSAS may want changed in the future.

2. The web accessibility aspects can probably be automated in Latex (rather than doing at the end in the .pdf). Look into this. A web search turns up 
[this site](http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/124291/revisiting-producing-structured-pdfs-from-latex) as possibly the most useful. I plan to maybe look into this for our assessment due December 2014, though may not have time. 

20/5/15: UPDATE regarding web accessibility: Ann in CSAP office says they can do with Web Accessibility stuff on the .pdf file, so we shouldn't have to.

updated resDocSty.sty - line 60 change indention from 0.5 to 0cm (CSAS does not want captions indented after first line). 

###Branches

**incorporateRH** - incorporating from Rowan's latest to use for Redbanded assessment. Commenting out stuff of his that I don't want now but is useful to keep in so it's all in one place.


###Bibliography

From resDoc.bst:

The ordering of papers for 2 and >2 authors is fiddly and maybe not possible to automate, and so just do manually prior to submission
(edit the order of the .bst file). The CJFAS rules are:

References must be listed in alphabetical order according to the name of the first author and not numbered. References with the same first author are listed in the following order. 

(i) Papers with one author only are listed first in chronological order, beginning with the earliest paper. 

(ii) Papers with dual authorship follow and are listed in alphabetical order by the last name of the second author. 

(iii) Papers with three or more authors appear after the dual-authored  papers and are arranged chronologically. 

For Redbanded had to manually (in the .bbl file, so don't re-bibtex):

 - re-order Edwards et al. (2012 and 2014 order)
 - re-order Yamanaka et al. references into chron.
 - take out http links
 - Lecomte (2013) - add hyphens back in for J.-B. and M.-P. (other .bst files don't mess this up).


Doing http:// links (CSAS wants them to be live and clickable) seems to work automatically when you make a .pdf. They don't have to be underlined. Though I think that has since changed and they don't want the http text visible, which is tricky. For Redbanded I've taken them out.

Add as an issue: To do manually: the .bbl file (or the version it was based on) incorrectly strips out hyphens in hyphenated first names. Doing manually for Redbanded in for Lecomte (2013), both J.-B. and M.-P.
